!hidden
!

uberman
sleeping in bits

- Day 3, 8 April
Hit zombie mode and fell asleep again. I have the willpower to try it but the constant sleep deprivation is taking a toll on my body- feeling sick, headaches and being tired for 1 week is not at all nice.

I sleep in airports, buses, benches, everywhere when backpacking and can resist noise or discomfort to get sleep. This and the fact I sleep longer than average means I need more to keep me awake. Next time when I attempt this I will have a buddy also. We can wake each other up after naps and go around town together. Keep each other awake. It's much easier with another person.

- Day 2, 5 naps
This last nap was dark, quiet, relaxing; how naps should be. I had an intense lucid dream where I controlled everything. Seemed to last only a few seconds though so I must have gone into deeper sleep.

- Day 2, 4 naps
Feeling surprisingly better eventhough the last nap wasn't really great. Went to crash and outside my window where there is a children's daycare the kids were having a shouting match. I tried to block it out but they continued for 8 mins! Left for a quieter room in the house, crashed and then a car alarm goes off and the phone starts ringing!

During the broken nap I had a weird sensation where I would be awake then enter the dreamworld then get woken up. Very surreal.

- Day 1, 5 naps
Nearing the end of Day 1. Found loads of nice new activities for staying awake. Namely drawing super detailed garbage while listening to loud fast music on full blast volume while wearing stereo headphones. LALALALALALALALA KATAMARI DALMACY BOOM BOOM

- Day 1, 2 naps Starting 7 April
This labelling system seems better. Suns out and been basking in some of that good melatonin-inhibiting warm sunshine. Be nice if it stays this way for when I hit Day 4 again. Keeps me awake. Last night I was playing charades and it is the best thing to stay awake ever devised. Shame I crashed as soon as my sister went to sleep.

- 6 April 5:00 AM
Last night was crushingly hard. I fell asleep at 1 AM until getting woken by my second alarm at 4:30 AM. Apparently this 3½ hours means I'm reset from day 4 all the way back to day 1 again. Regret it now. Why

- 5 April 7:00 PM
Feeling groggy and tired. Likely I'll start slipping into zombie mode after my next nap. Not happy. Been brainstorming around house on keep awake ideas. Guess I'll be walking outside a lot tonight. At the peak of zombie mode I plan to walk to a friends house in the next town, nap at his, walk back.

- 5 April 4:33 PM
My midday nap was not very good being punctuated by car alarms, loud children and in house noise. For the next nap I decided on a comfy bed instead of the sofa in dead quiet. It was so very relaxing that I overslept by 2 mins and badly wanted to stay in bed. Keeping awake is hard now but I just tell myself that I should make the decision on the 13th- not now while my mind is tainted by fatique and bad arguments sound appealing.

I might be transitioning to zombie mode now. Hope not. Hold on- facial dunk.

Dealing with the extreme appetite; I can handle that. Dealing with the tiredness; I can fight that. But the cold. The cold is the worst for me. 7 layers of clothing sitting under a duvet with sun shining outside and I feel chills.

- 5 April 8:35 AM
Just keep feeling better and better as the day goes on! ZOMG Got rosy colour in my cheeks again. Before people were telling me to stop since they thought I'd kill myself as I looked like a decaying white zombie with black eyes. Still feel teensy like my early morning lie-in cut short but got more energy and had a *fantastic* nap half an hour ago. My status is improving with each nap and I'm feeling better.

My body finally is giving me the REM sleep needed in my naps. Each nap is making up for lost time. REM sleep is short anyway so it should catch up fast. Feeling very chummy at having smashed this.

- 5 April 4:48 AM
Body feels remarkably fine. Mind feels tired. Aren't up to complex thinking so no Poker, but smaller tasks like drawing are fine. Could very well be my adjustment to the Uberman if this carries on! Again hit REM sleep in my last nap.

- 5 April 2:28 AM
So it's day 3 and by now I should hit zombie mode as I did in the first 2 tries. The fact I haven't and am feeling not bad makes me extremely suspicious of this shadiness. We will see once I hit my circadian rhythm soon in a few hours. Expecting to be in hell with hammers pounding my head and little men hanging off my eyelids, hoping to feel miraculously fine and energetic.

Today I did drop into REM sleep before my broken speakers made a glitch sound and woke me up. I woke up, smashed the off switch and dropped down again. Didn't re-enter it though. Dreams have been quite vivid so I'll start logging those into a compilation.

- 4 April 9:33 PM
Been trying new things to stay awake and it's going great! Earlier my head was drooping but now I feel fine.

> Dunking face in bowl of water. Incredibly refreshing.
> Stand up and walk around every 30 mins.
> Every 2 hours or so go outside for a short walk.
> A cup of water on the opposite end of the room. Get up stride over, have drink, stride back, sit down.

Going to watch a loud film now with lots of fast action. Honestly the bowl of water thing is fantastic. Jurassic Park sounds good.

- 4 April 4:36 PM
Sleep deprivation makes you incredibly cold. Even with 3 hoodies and a duvet draped on my shoulders a small chill is weaving around my spine. I went to bask in the glorious sunny rays of warmth in the garden but after a few minutes of pure pleasure the heavens decided they don't like that and turned off the happiness faucet. Bawwwww.

- 4 April 7:33 AM
Hungry with nothing to eat. Need to nap soon but totally not tired. Both being opposite would be better. Going to make something happen with constructive efforts now.

Totally cool video from a chick on day 5 of her Uberman sleep schedule. I feel like if I get past day 4 then I should be there like she says.

http://www.youtube.com/v/MND9xHY79q0

- 4 April 2:35 AM
Had a long sleep today. Got up briefly in the afternoon to go on a free guided historical tour. Ran to sea front, then ran to another place then ran back again to find it was cancelled.

After talking with others I found it's common in the zombie stage of adjusting to start sleep walking and do complex things like turning off your alarm. I'm going to hide a whole bunch of them around the room now and get others to wake me up when they can.

What happened is I was woken up 7 hours later and found the alarm on my laptop had been turned off! Except I don't remember doing it! Annoyed I just went back to sleep. Third attempt.

- 2 April 5:45 AM
Still awake! Just been dunking my face in a bowl of water to stop my stinging eyes.

Lied perfectly still for last 2 hours watching trash TV 'regenerating' in a vegetable state. Feel fresh.

- 1 April 7:48 AM
Second Uberman attempt timed so that I will have people around when I hit zombie mode to keep me awake. Tested a bunch of criteria; mental ability, speed typing, physical balance and memory. After I adjust we can compare the results ;)

Programmed an alarm which plays the most horrendous music and strobe light continuously until I wake up and stop it.

http://www.youtube.com/v/4RnUAsUjPPU&hl=en_GB&fs=1&

- 29 March 6:30 PM
Took my first nap and slept through my alarm- didn't hear it even. Woke up by the alarm for my second nap so I just turned it off and went back to sleep until now. Plan to make my next attempt on Thursday so when it gets hard my sisters can keep my awake.

- 29 March 4:50 AM
Body feels tired. Headache and just staring blankly at the wall. Phasing out into another dimension. My eyes are thankfully staying open easily but my eyes cannot focus properly. I am zombiefying. Just walked in circles for 5 mins. Can't wait for my next nap... Counting down the minutes.

My last nap... I think I sank into REM sleep then woke up midway and now feel devastated. Am holding on.

- 28 March 11:19 PM
When should I expect to hit the wall? Feeling a little exhausted but not tired yet- low attention span makes it hard to even finish this sentence! (forgotten item goes here)

- 28 March 4:29 PM
Two naps down. Started at 12:00, had the second at 4:00. After 40 mins in 24 hours I feel like I should be more tired but I'm expecting to [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hit_the_wall|hit the wall] tomorrow. I just have to push through that and hold myself together and I'll be on the home run.

Sleep deprived my attention is predictably short. Typing this is a very difficult effort. Feeling a buzz and slightly creative eventhough my last nap got cut short by noise.

- 28 March
I've decided to forget going to sleep (been up 24 hours) and start now. My times will be 4, 8, 12, 4, 8, 12. 20 mins each.

Been planning an activities list.
*Energised*
> Read a book
> Program code
> Write in my journal or this blog
> Pursue a new interest/Learn new things

*Fading*
> Watch an exciting movie
> Clean house
> Paint & Draw
> Plan an exciting video game *standing up*
> Cook a meal
> Take a hot shower
> Juggling
> Darts

*Zombie*
> Go for a long walk
> Ping Pong
> Loud musc. Sing a long and dance.
> Jumping Jacks
> Skipping Rope

- 27 March
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyphasic_sleep#Uberman.27s_sleep_schedule|Uberman] is a sleep schedule you hear the echoes of here and there on the internet. Yet with all the faint whispers there has been no studies or research on Polyhasic sleep.

Uberman is a hack where you bypass all the earlier steps of sleep to get to the golden REM cycle. By training your body you can have 22 hour days. Think of all the wonderful things I can do! Too good to be true?

So I thought until I read the anecdotal evidence online- which sadly with me being a hard facts man of science is the *only* evidence. A poet was the first blog I read. Typical crying emotional hippy although a comment about focus caught my eye. The next person was a database programmer which is my type of person- logical, educated and intelligent.

He described a clarity of thought. A state without the background chatter. Every diary I read mentions clearness. I want this.

Normally my day is 28 hours long with me sleeping around 10-12 hours a day. It varies with weeks where I barely sleep to weeks where I sleep insanely long all day everyday. Since as long as I remember I've always been like this. In school I was just always tired and it was hard growing up in a family of early risers. In lessons I would sleep a lot eventhough I got good grades. As a former programmer I had to forgo that for work at home which fits into my flexible lifestyle. Like [http://dustincurtis.com/sleep.html|this guy].

Getting tired now. It's 9am; what time I wake up will decide my nap times. I need 6 of them 20 mins long. The first 2 weeks are apparently hard but after that your body adjusts. To keep myself occupied I plan to blog here and do creative constructive things like drawing.
